[Music]
for those of you wondering about
hypothetical stuff
here's another adventure for you what
would happen if a train went too fast
across the globe millions of people
travel by train every day for some
trains are just another way to get from
A to B while others are totally
fascinated by this type of transport but
there probably isn't a single person who
hasn't at least once wondered what would
happen if a train sped up or a too fast
before you get the answers to this and
other train related questions hit the
subscribe button and turn on
notifications to join us on the bright
side as you may know trains are getting
faster and faster these days the
shanghai maglev train can reach a speed
of a whopping 267 miles per hour and it
isn't even the newest or the most
expensive one for eight bucks the maglev
train will take you from Shanghai's
put-on International Airport to the
outskirts of the city where you'll need
to transfer to a metro line to get into
the city itself the trip takes only
seven minutes such an impressive speed
is achieved thanks to technology known
as magnetic levitation hence the name
maglev of course bullet trains like the
Shanghai maglev have been designed
specifically for high speeds what about
the usual kind what would happen if a
typical train went too fast when a train
speeds up on the rails this can bring
about some serious problems first of all
your body can't handle fast acceleration
believe it or not a person can survive
any constant speed be it 30 miles per
hour or 10 billion miles per hour but if
a train a car a plane or any other type
of transport accelerates too quickly
this can cause all the passengers to
lose consciousness
besides if your train starts to go too
fast you'll experience low-frequency
motions and vibrations these movements
are what gives you motion sickness the
thing is that when a train speeds up it
must use more force to push the air out
of its way for example at 300 miles per
hour a train will need 27 times more
power than when it travels at 100 miles
per hour I know what you're thinking
aircraft don't experience too many
vibrations and they go a lot faster than
trains but you should remember that the
air at ground level is much denser than
let's say 30,000 feet thus trains have
to overcome more resistance
that's why passengers feel a strong
discomforting vibration but the scariest
outcome of a train going too fast is
potential derailment this happens when a
train runs off its tracks a lot of
things can cause a train to derail and a
speed that's way too high is just one of
them
minor derailments when a train doesn't
leave its track completely happen much
more often than you'd think and even if
no passengers get hurt in such accidents
the railway system in that area
temporarily stops functioning not all
trains they get derailed carry
passengers most of them are freight
trains transporting different goods
statistically every two weeks a train
that has gone off the track causes a
chemical spill and some of these spills
are so bad that local residents need to
be evacuated this means that you may
suffer the consequences of a derailment
even if you weren't a passenger of that
train
as for the derailment of a passenger
train it's usually a messy and
terrifying business however you can
increase your chances of surviving and
remaining unhurt according to experts
it's best to choose a seat in the middle
of the Train
these cars are less likely to be
seriously damaged during a derailment
accident at the same time the front and
the back of the Train are usually the
most damaged parts on top of that
always up for a seat that faces
backwards if the train derails or
crashes into something at a high speed
you won't be thrown forward but pushed
back into your seat instead okay
a train is going way too fast so how do
you stop it hmm what would happen if you
pulled the emergency brake the emergency
brake is a living paradox on one hand
it's conveniently within reach and it's
supposed to be used in case of well the
emergency right but get this right near
the emergency brake of a New York City
subway car there's a list of
instructions and it specifies that you
shouldn't pull the emergency cord even
during an emergency actually especially
in the case of emergency huh if you try
to bring a multi-ton machine moving at
high speeds to a sudden halt you should
be ready for the consequences most
trains all over the world especially
those that cater to mass transit use air
brakes this system differs drastically
from the automobile braking system in
your car an increase in pressure means
an increase of pressure on the brakes
but a train's brakes operate in a
different way
the air brake system is normally closed
by default and if a train operator wants
to brake they need to reduce air
pressure in the trains braking system
only then will the brakes open this
means that if there's a failure in
pressure in the braking system the
brakes will engage automatically but if
you pull the emergency brake you provoke
a rapid loss of pressure air gets vented
from the brake pipe and as a
the brakes literally slam shut on one
hand you'll reach your goal and the
train will stop but this will be a
violent occasion a lot of people will be
knocked down and hurt in the worst-case
scenario the train may even derail a
similar accident happened in 2017 in a
New York subway a train derailed after
somebody pulled its emergency brake some
trains are protected from this risk for
instance in London an underground train
operator can choose to override the
brake in any case when speaking about
the subway experts strongly recommend
against pulling the emergency brake
obviously it's easier to get help in an
emergency situation if the train has
managed to arrive at a station then if
you got it stuck in a dark tunnel on top
of that once the train has been stopped
with the use of an emergency brake it
can't be simply started up again
according to a report prepared by the
New York Times in 2010 it can take as
long as 10 minutes to reset the braking
system at the time a maintenance team
needs to reach the train and you'll spot
some serious problems looming ahead of
the guy who pulled the brake at the very
least they'll have to pay a hefty fine
but if passengers have been hurt or the
train has been damaged there may even be
some criminal charges so keep your hands
off of it dude and finally here's a
question we've all had since we were
kids if country singing legend Shania
Twain were to market her own brand of
bubble gum would she call it
choo choo Twain actually that's not the
question but it's still funny
the real question kids always ask is
with a coin on the track derail a train
there's a popular belief that a coin
left on the track can derail a train
however this is next to impossible the
only person who can be heard or even
fatally injured is the one who conducts
such an experiment as we've already
established several
a speeding train is a massive and
extremely heavy object a coin is
obviously too light to obstruct its path
a train will simply knock it out of the
way or flatten it nobody inside will
notice even the slightest change in the
trains movements at the same time there
have been several recorded cases where
people who place coins on the track lost
their lives when the coins were spit out
at high speeds the fact that little
coins can't derail entire trains doesn't
mean that trains are invincible
obviously a more massive object on the
track such as a vehicle a piece of metal
or even a brick can lead to a train
crash the Federal Railroad
Administration reports that 1.4 percent
of all derailments that happen from 2009
to 2012 were caused by something left on
the track these objects included ice
snow and coal that's why it's a really
really really bad idea to place anything
at all on the track or hang out anywhere
near train tracks for that matter
this can only threaten your safety and
the safety of others
so how did you like our training other
than the jokes do you have any other
questions about trains write them in the
comment section below and let's discuss
them all together remember to give this
video a like share it with your friends
and click subscribe to stay on the
bright side of life